---
created: 2021-09-21T12:16:00
tags:
  - note
  - journal
---
The Mythical Pokémon Zarude debuts in Pokémon GO to celebrate the global release of Pokémon the Movie: Secrets of the Jungle
        - Trainers,
        - The latest Pokémon film, __Pokémon the Movie: Secrets of the Jungle__, is releasing globally on Netflix on Friday, October 8, 2021! In celebration of the movie’s release, Zarude, the Rogue Monkey Pokémon, will be making its Pokémon GO debut! You’ll be able to encounter it by completing limited-time Special Research. You can also look forward to lots of other in-game content inspired by the movie, including the return of Jessie and James to Pokémon GO.
        - **Date + Time**
        -  Friday, [[October 1st, 2021]], at 10:00 a.m. to Sunday, [[October 10th, 2021]], at 8:00 p.m. local time 
        - **Features**
            - A limited-time Special Research story will be available! Complete this research line to encounter Zarude and help Professor Willow learn more about the Rogue Monkey Pokémon. This is the first time that this Dark- and Grass-type Mythical Pokémon will be available in Pokémon GO. Note that you can obtain this Special Research only during the event period, but once you have it, you can complete it anytime. [[timedresearch]]
            - Encounter Pokémon related to __Pokémon the Movie: Secrets of the Jungle__! Hoothoot, Combee, Drilbur, Cottonee, Dwebble, and more will be appearing more frequently in the wild. If you’re lucky, you might encounter a Larvitar! [[spawns]]
            - Explorer Pikachu will be making its return to Pokémon GO, appearing in the wild. If you’re lucky, you might encounter a Shiny Explorer Pikachu! [[spawns]]
            - Pokémon seen in the movie will also be appearing in [[raids]] throughout the event:
                - Explorer Pikachu, Larvitar, Roggenrola, Foongus, and Rufflet will be appearing in one-star raids. If you’re lucky, you might encounter a Shiny Rufflet!
                - Lickitung, Chansey, Pinsir, Ludicolo, and Flygon will be appearing in three-star raids.
            - Jessie and James will be continuing their hijinks from last year’s event. Keep an eye out for them in your snapshots, and watch for their Meowth Balloon. Jessie and James will be appearing in their Meowth Balloon until Friday, October 15, 2021, at 10:00 a.m. local time. [[jjballons]] 
                - No mention of what pokemon they will have.
            - Get themed Field Research tasks from PokéStops that’ll lead to encounters with Audino, Rufflet, and more. If you’re lucky, you might encounter a Shiny Rufflet! [[researchtasks]]
            - New free avatar items will be available in the Style Shop, including the Adventure Hat and the Wailmer Water Bottle.
        - Be sure to watch __Pokémon the Movie: Secrets of the Jungle__ on Netflix after it releases globally on Friday, October 8, 2021. For more information on the film, please see [here](https://zarude.pokemon.com/).